in 1984 Los Angeles a cyborg assassin
known as the Terminator arrives from
2029 and steals clothes and guns Kyle
Reese a human soldier sent back in time
from the same year arrived shortly
afterwards he steals clothes and weapons
and evades the police the Terminator
begins systematically killing women
named Sarah Connor whose addresses it
finds in a telephone directory it tracks
the last Sarah Connor to a nightclub but
Kyle rescues her the pair steal a car
and escape with the Terminator pursuing
them in a police car as they hide in a
parking lot
Kyle explains to Sarah that an
artificial intelligence defense network
known as Skynet will become self-aware
in the near future and initiate a
nuclear holocaust
Sarah's future son John will rally the
survivors and later resistance movement
against Skynet and its army of machines
with the resistance on the verge of
victory Skynet sent a terminator back in
time to kill Sarah before John is born
to prevent the formation of the
resistance the Terminator a Cyberdyne
systems model 101 is an efficient
killing machine with a powerful metal
endoskeleton and an external layer of
living tissue that makes it appear human
Kyle and Sarah are apprehended by police
after another encounter with terminator
criminal psychologist dr. Silberman
concludes that kyle is paranoid and
delusional the Terminator repairs its
body and attacks the police station
killing 17 police officers in its
attempt to locate Sarah Kyle and Sarah
escape steal another car and take refuge
in a motel where they assemble pipe
bombs and plan their next move Kyle
admits that he has been in love with
Sarah since John gave him a photograph
of her reciprocating his feelings
Sarah kisses Kyle and they make love the
Terminator kills Sarah's mother and
impersonates her when Sarah unaware of
the terminators ability to mimic voices
attempts to contact her via telephone
when they realized the Terminator has
reacquired them they escape in a pickup
truck while it chases them on a
motorcycle in the ensuing chase Kyle is
wounded by gunfire while throwing pipe
bombs at the Terminator and enraged
Sarah knocks the Terminator off its
motorcycle but loses control of the
truck which flips over the Terminator
hijacks a tank
truck and attempts to run down Sarah but
Kyle slides a pipe bomb onto the tankers
hose tube causing an explosion that
burns the flesh from the terminators
endoskeleton it pursues them into a
factory where Kyle activates machinery
to confuse the terminator he jams his
final pipe bomb into the terminators
abdomen blowing it apart injuring Sarah
and killing himself the terminators
torso reactivates and grab Sarah she
breaks free and lers it into a hydraulic
press crushing it months later a
pregnant Sarah is traveling through
Mexico recording audio tapes to pass on
her unborn son John
she debates whether to tell John that
Kyle is his father at a gas station a
boy takes an instant photograph of her
and she buys it the same photograph that
John will give to Kyle